A note on circuit theory

Circuit theory is useful, but it is important to remain at all times cognizant of the face that the circuit you draw up is describing the system, it is MODELING it. 
Take for example the instance of a single battery connected across a single incandescanet light bulb.

The circuit we would use to describe this is a voltage source connected across a resistor. This model can be referred to as the lumped-element linear non-differential model of the physical system. (don't call it a DC circuit yet) When conducting circuit analysis to understand a physical system, you must always be balancing the accuracy of the model with the solvability of the model. To illustrate this, I'd like you to consider situations that reveal the limitations of this model.

Consdier what would happen if you look precisely at the voltage across the battery, and then looked at the voltage across the bulb? Are they exactly the same? This exposes the face that perhaps we shouldn't just assume our system to be a single voltage source and a single resistor. You begin to add in 'parasitic devices'.

Consider what would happen if you began to rapidly change the voltage at the battery back and forth. This would point to the fact that the system is linear, but that it must be described by differential equations.

Consider what would happen if you replaced the incandescant light bulb with a LED light bulb. Could you still model it with a resistor? If you begin changing the voltage across the device would indicate that the system is not linear! If you increase the voltage from the battery 

In all these instances, changes in the way in which we excite or examine the system have exposed deficiecy in our initial linear-lumped lumped element model of the circuit. To improve the accuracy of our model to the physical system, we respond by adding additional 'parasitic' devices in the model. All of these modifications fall within the domain of 'lumped-element' circuit theory. In this class we will examing ther behavior and analysis of linear and non-linear, and differential and non-differential systems. There are, however, situations and question you could ask about this system, that could not be answer or modeled by circuit theory.

Consider for intance what would happen if you began to increase the voltage of the supply? At a certain point, either the wires will melt or the bulb will burn out. Niether of these would be explained by circuit theory. In this case, we are running into the material limitations of the components.

Consider for instance what would happen if we increased the distance between the battery and the bulb to 100ft. If we suddenly reconnect the battery, we will see that while the voltage at the near end of the line begins to rise immediately, at the far end of the line. Or lets say we place a magnet next to our circuit. If the current is high enough, we will see the magnet align it's poles with respect to the wire. With know this occurs due to amperes law, but there is nothing in our lumped-circuit theory model that explain this. In these two cases, we are running into the fact that electricity is not actually the instaanously simple thing, confined to the wires of a circuit, that we expect it to be. Electricity is actually electromagnitism, which is continous and around us all the time. 

So we seem to have exposed the face that the lumped-element linear time-invariant model of the circuit is naive, inadequent. Should we toss it out in exchange for maxwell's equations? In the instance of our simple system, one could quite concievably work out a great number more things with the field solution to the system.

But the answer is no! Absolutely not. This is because, lumped-element circuit theory is useful, it is simple! As long as you design your system well, and restrain yourself to only asking only the sorts of questions that circuit theory can answer, you are golden. And circuit theory can answer a great many questions, the types which are necessary for designing an electronic system. To illistrate this, what if you were trying to build a system like this: [Show picture of physical circuit]. This would be near impossible to analyze with maxwell's equations, it would be too unweidly. However, you absolutely can analyse it with circuit theory. In fact, here is the equivalent lumped element model of the circuit.

As I stated before, a model of a system must strike a balance between accuracy and solvability. As an engineer, you must be always hyper-aware of the sort of model you are uses, what types of questions it can answer, and the cases in which that model will break down and fail to accurately predict the systems behaviour. In these cases, sometimes the answer will be to make a more complicated model, and sometimes the aswer will be to stick with the model you have, KNOWING that the effects you are failing to model are insignifigant to your application. In circuit theory, there is no such thing as a perfect or 'true' model, only a 'good enough model'.

