Whittaker-Shannon-Nyquist sampling theorem says there is no info loss when digitizing band-limited analog signals, if sampling rate is at least twice that of highest frequency in the signal.

The sampling theorem is worst case though, as it assuming that highest frequency is always present.

> Recent developments in alternative sampling schemes such as compressive sensing [6], finite rate of innovation [7], and signal-dependent time-based samplers [8]–[10] are promising. These approaches combine sensing and compression into a single step by recognizing that useful information in real world signals is sparser than the raw data generated by sensors. The focus of this paper is on processing of pulse trains created by a special type of analog to pulse converter named integrate and fire converter (IFC), which converts an analog signal of finite bandwidth into a train of pulses where the area under the curve of the analog signal is encoded in the time difference between pulses [10]. The IFC is inspired by the leaky integrator and fire neuron model [11]. It takes advantage of the time structure of the input,enabling users to tune the IFC parameters for sensing specific regions of interest in the signal; therefore, it provides a compressed representation of the analog signal, using the  charge time of the capacitor as the sparseness constraint [12]–[14].

The key idea here is designing a sampling and compression scheme which are integrated together, and tailored to the signal of interest. The quote "approaches combine sensing and compression into a single step by recognizing that useful information in real world signals is sparser than the raw data generated by sensors."


Looking at a pulse signal, we can imagine that there is some algorithm that given a list of samples 

[Online vs offline algorithm implementations.](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Online_algorithm)

If we want to know the area under the curve of a pulse (and the time that it arrives, but we'll address that later) what is the most efficient 'online' scheme for sampling it, if we don't know it's time of arrival. We need to minimize output data for a given desired precision, and make sure we can reject false positives coming from noise.

We can assume an output bandwidth per chip of around 5 GHz, in the highest hit rate sections. That corresponds to around 3 GHz per cm^2.